So far, we have been drawing our objects more
or less manually. Like this circle here. This
circle is positioned at x:20 and y:20. But
the more complex our designs and generative
objects become, the more things we need to
draw. What we could in this case simply do,
if we want to draw multiple circles, we can
copy and paste the code, and then just place
them at different positions. Let's say we want to
place them all in a row at different x-positions.
And let's say we place this one at 40, 60, 80,
100 and 120. Now we have a couple of points, but
obviously this can turn into a lot of code writing
and especially if you want to change something.
Now we need to change it in so many different
places. So this is when the interesting concept
of loops comes into play. We have two types
of loops. I will start with the "while" loop.
The first thing you need to do when you're
setting up a loop, is you need to translate
your concept into something that can be done in an
iterative process. In our case here we have these
six circles and the only thing that is changing
in those six circles is the x-position. So let's
think of how we could change this by placing a
variable inside that we will then use to count
up inside our loop. What we could do for example
say the first one sits at 20 the next one sits at
40 so we could say okay we simply
place them, we multiply 20 times.
A variable that we will use in a second.
And 20 times six so now our code stays kind of
the same and there's only one bit of information
changing and that is a counter that is increasing.
Now we can simply remove all of these bits and
we replace this part here through a variable.
Let's call it counter. What we now need to do,
we need a start for our variable so let's
define it to be one in the beginning and then
as our loop is running we want to increase the
counter every time the loop is finished. And
count up until we reach the counter six. So for
this, for the beginning we use the "while"-loop.
To use a while loop, you simply write "while"
and then some curly brackets and inside the curly
brackets we will include the commands that
we want to execute each time the loop runs.
And in the brackets up here, we now need to write
a condition and tell our loop how long it should
run. In our case we want the loop to run as
long as counter is smaller or equals six. And
what we then need to do, because if we would start
now, the loop would start running and the loop
would check okay is the counter variable still
smaller or equal six, and it is, so it runs and
after the loop is completed it checks again, and
checks again, but the counter is not increasing
so far. So what we need to do is add one to the
counter variable every time the loop is completed.
At some point the counter turns seven and then the
while loop identifies okay this is not smaller or
equal six so i will stop running the loop. And
when i save this now we can see that we now have
six circles there. And what is nice now i can just
change the condition here. Let's change it to 10.
And i get 10 circles or i could
say i want the circles to be bigger
and i would just need to change the code in
one individual place, but it changes for all
the iterations of the loop and i don't need to
write the same code over and over again. And what
is also nice let's change this to x. We can nest
our loops. Let's say we don't only want to create
a row of points but actually a grid of points.
We will simply add another loop inside here,
which we will use for the "y", use it for the same
number of columns, of course we need to set the
y-variable and then multiply our
y-position. And then indent the whole thing.
Add one to our y-variable. So now we
have the outer loop which starts running,
we are going from left to right and inside for
each x-position, we are also running from top
to bottom. And if i save this now, we now
get 10x10 circles. And so we can use these
kind of loops to create tons and tons of objects
really really quickly, without needing to write
a lot of code, which is very nice. In the next
video i will introduce you to the for-loop
which is a little bit more efficient
way of writing these kind of loops.